From the New York Times, I'm Michael
Bubaro. [music] This is the daily.
[music]
On Tuesday, prosecutors investigating
the death of Rob and Michelle Reiner
[music] said they plan to charge the
couple's son, Nick, with firstdegree
[music] murder. today. Julia Jacobs on
what we're learning about the death of a
Hollywood legend and [music] Wesley
Morris on why so many of Reiner's films
are among the most beloved movies ever
made.
It's Wednesday, December 17th.
Julie, I appreciate you coming in today.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> I just want to say at the outset,
perhaps this is obvious, but the death
of Rob Reiner and his wife Michelle is a
very gruesome and tragic situation and
we do not want to linger on it for a
long time in this conversation. In fact,
I hope we don't have to linger on it
much at all. But I do think we should
briefly talk about what we know at this
point about what actually happened.
>> You're right. It's an absolute tragedy
and there are a lot of questions right
now. But what we do know is that on
Sunday evening, the authorities were
called to Rob Reiner's home in
Brentwood, a neighborhood in Los
Angeles. And the first information that
came out was that there were two
deceased individuals inside. And they
listed the ages, but not initially the
identities. But the ages matched up
roughly with those of Rob Reiner, the
Hollywood director, and his wife,
Michelle Singer Reiner, who is a
photographer and a producer.
And [clears throat] later that night on
Sunday night, their son Nick was
arrested and eventually police said they
were investigating his role in their
deaths.
>> Right. Which was a shocking piece of
information. Yes. And then on Tuesday,
prosecutors announced that they intended
to charge Nick Reiner with two counts of
first-degree murder.
>> Right. Making very official this
genuinely horrible scenario in which a
child had killed both of his parents.
>> Correct. And the son, Nick Reiner, had a
long documented history of drug
addiction. And you know, that story had
been out there for years. He had
struggled since he was a teenager. He
had been in and out of rehab. He had
gone through bouts of homelessness when
he didn't want to be in the rehab that
his parents wanted him to be in. But he
eventually made his way back home and
started living in his parents' guest
house.
>> And what I'm told is they had a very
tight-knit, warm household. They spent a
lot of time together. And in fact, on
Saturday night, some of my colleagues
were told that Rob Reiner and Nick
Reiner were at the house of Conan
O'Brien for a Christmas party.
>> Um,
>> the night before,
>> the night before. And that, you know,
one person told my colleague that Rob
Reiner said something about his son's
behavior, something to the effect of,
"You can't act this way."
>> And this was the night before Rob and
his wife Michelle were found stabbed to
death allegedly by Nick. And what we all
had to reckon with thereafter was that
this huge force in Hollywood, this
enormously successful and influential
director and producer who himself had
quite famously escaped the shadow of his
own father, had allegedly, as you said,
been killed by his own son. And I wonder
if you can tell us that story of Reiner
and how he became what he became.
>> So after the news of Rob Reiner's tragic
death, everyone automatically started
reliving his career. And something that
he talked about a lot is his father,
Paul Reiner. He was a giant of 20th
century television. and he helped define
the medium of television comedy. He was
a performer, a writer, director. He
created the Dick Van Dyke Show, one of
the most celebrated comedies of all
time. He won nine Emmys and and directed
many movies. He worked as a close
collaborator with Steve Martin. And
throughout Rob's long career in
Hollywood, he could actually be quite
candid about how overwhelming it could
be to live in the shadow of his father.
How did he talk about it?
>> He talked about feeling misunderstood as
a child once he was quoted as saying it
was frightening to be compared to him.
And he tells this story about how a
friend of his father Norman Lear,
another giant of television, pointed out
to Carl Reiner that, you know, his son
Rob was quite funny. But Carl Reiner was
surprised like my son funny. I think
he's quite quiet and sullen. And in
Rob's later years, he would tell that
story a lot as an example of how he just
felt like his father didn't get him,
>> didn't know him,
>> right? But he wanted to be like his
father, just like his father. And he
didn't shy away from that either. He
told another story that when his father
at one point encouraged him to
differentiate himself, he suggested, you
know, what other name would you want to
take on? what would you want to change
your name to?
>> And Rob said, "What if I changed it to
Carl?"
>> And so he embraced this desire to be
like his father. He was a teenager on
the set of the Dick Van Dyke show,
learning everything he could about
entertainment. And you know, eventually
he got into theater. He struck out on
his own. And his first major television
role, he was cast by Norman Lear, his
father's friend. And this was for the
sitcom
>> from television city in Hollywood.
>> All in the family.
>> Boy, the way Glen Miller [singing]
played
songs.
>> It was a defining television show of the
1970s for the way it put generational
conflict on display. [music]
This was a time when, you know, members
of the silent generation like the show's
patriarch Archie Bunker were really
grappling with the youth counterculture
that stemmed from the 1960s and the
anti-war movement. [music] And Rob
Reiner's character was this guy named
Michael Stivik. He was a leftist, a
pacifist hippie, and he was really the
avatar for that younger generation.
>> Anything interesting in the paper?
>> Yeah. 200 arrested in Vietnam Day peace
demonstration. 200. They should have
thrown a whole bunch of them in the can.
>> Well, I think they just don't like the
idea of America fighting an illegal and
immoral war.
>> Well, if they don't like it, they can
lump it,
take it down the road, and dump it.
And a lot of the show's comedy came from
this back and forth between Archie
Bunker, the conservative father-in-law,
to Mike Stivic, who he calls, "You are a
meatthead." [laughter]
>> Meatthead,
>> right?
>> A meatthead. Dead from the neck up. Meat
head.
>> And even though they weren't, you know,
father and son by blood, this was a show
with a strong undercurrent of this
familial narrative.
And the two would fight over politics,
over Michael's lack of a job that Archie
would deem respectable.
>> That's all you care about, Archie, is
what you got and how you can keep it.
>> Well, YOU'D CARE ABOUT IT, TOO, SUNNY
BOY, IF YOU HAD ANYTHING. [laughter]
>> It wasn't living on for me without a pot
to peel a potato in.
>> And yet, there's also this deep
undercurrent of love between them,
>> right? There are moments of real
connection. And the scene that comes to
mind immediately is one where they're
stuck together in a storage room full of
alcohol and you know both of them are
drunk and talking about their fathers.
>> Did you ever think that that possibly
your your father just might be wrong?
>> Wrong my old man. Don't be stupid with
my old man. I mean tell you about him.
He was never wrong about nothing. Huh?
Yes, he was, Arch.
>> I
>> My old man used to call people the same
things as your old man, but I always
knew he was wrong. So was your old man.
>> No, he was.
>> Yes, he was.
>> Your father WAS WRONG.
>> YOUR FATHER WAS WRONG.
>> It's this moment where Archie Bunker
>> kind of whether he wants to or not,
unloads
a lot about his own
childhood.
father who made you
wrong. Your father,
the bread winner of the house there, the
man who goes out and bust his butt to
keep a roof over your head and close on
your back. You call your father wrong.
Hey, your father.
Archie Bunker has this conviction that
he shares with Michael Spivik that a
father cannot be wrong.
>> And yet he explains all that his father
did to him as a child.
>> My father had a hand on him. Now let's
tell you he busted that hand once and he
busted her on me
to teach me to do good. [laughter]
I far a shoved me in a closet. Mr. 7
teach me to do good
cuz he loved me. He loved me.
>> And yet there's still this nagging
conviction that a father can't be wrong.
>> Let me tell you something.
You're supposed to love your father
cuz your father loves you.
And how can any man that loves you
tell you anything is wrong?
>> And as Archie Bunker is telling the
story, the reaction of Michael,
it seems to dawn on him why his
father-in-law is like this, why he's so
harsh on him, why their relationship can
be so at odds, because he doesn't always
act like his father-in-law is always
right. And at the end of the scene, you
know, as Archie Bunker lies down and
falls asleep, there's this really tender
moment where Michael gets up and
puts the blanket over him almost in a
fatherly way,
>> right? The son-in-law, Reiner, becomes
in a sense the father, the parent of a
suddenly quite openly wounded, although
not self-aware, of his wounds, Archie
Bunker. It's a really tender moment and
in this comedy it really stands out as
a moment of real substance.
This was a huge breakout role for
Reiner. He won two Emmys and he spent
really the second half of his 20s and
into his 30s on this show. But he had
this nagging feeling that he wanted to
do more. He wanted to direct. And so
after All in the Family ended, he became
a prolific film director and his first
major feature film was This is Spinal
Tap in 1984.
>> Your first drummer was uh
>> Stampy Peeps.
>> Great great uh tall blonde geek with
glasses.
>> Uh
>> good drama.
>> Great look. Good drama. Yeah. Fine.
>> What happened to him?
>> He died. He he died in a bizarre
gardening accident some years back.
>> And for those who don't know that movie,
it's quite specific.
>> Yes. It's this satire about a hapless
British metal band that really helped
define the form of mockumentary.
>> This is a top to you know what we use on
stage, but it's very very special
because if you can see
>> Yeah.
>> the numbers all go to 11. Look right
across the board. 11. And most of the
amps go up to 10.
>> Exactly.
>> And Reiner's in this movie. He doesn't
just direct,
>> right? He's in it as kind of the
straight man.
>> Louder.
>> Why don't you just make 10 louder and
make 10 be the top number and make that
a little louder?
>> These go to 11. And this release really
started the spectacular eight years of
cinema for Reiner where he leapfrogged
from genre to genre and really became a
force in Hollywood. You had the coming
of age drama Stand by Me.
>> You had the fantasy adventure film The
Princess Bride.
>> Hello, my name is Enigo Montoya. You
killed [music] my father. Prepare to
die.
>> Stop saying that. You had the
psychological thriller Misery.
>> You dirty bird. How could you?
>> The courtroom drama A Few Good Men.
>> You want answers. I THINK I'M ENTITLED.
YOU WANT ANSWERS.
>> I WANT THE TRUTH. YOU CAN'T HANDLE THE
TRUTH.
>> And of course, the romcom, probably his
most famous movie of all, When Harry Met
Sally.
>> But I would be proud.
>> But I would be proud
>> to partake
>> of your pean. of your peacon pie.
>> Peac,
>> right? And these movies are not just
memorable. They literally become part of
pop culture, part of our vernacular.
There is a quote from each and every one
of the movies you just mentioned that
either one of us could recite back to
each other, including, and this is from
Spinal Tap. It's such a fine line
between stupid and clever
>> or from a few good men, you can't handle
the truth.
>> I can't handle the truth.
>> And what's fascinating about this string
of movies is that Reiner would often tap
into his own personal experiences in
making them.
>> I think he said that's what kept him
honest as a filmmaker. And one example
of that is Stand by Me, which is based
on a nolla by Stephen King.
>> It's not the secret.
I forget the secret. Let me in.
>> Ver.
>> And it's about four pre-teen boys who
have this adventure.
>> So, what are you pissing and moaning
about, Verno?
>> You guys want to go see a dead body?
>> Trying to find this dead body. And along
the way, they're revealing the story of
who each of them are,
>> right?
>> And when it comes to the protagonist,
this 12-year-old aspiring writer, he has
this devastating scene where he breaks
down in front of his friend. Why did he
have to die, Chris?
Why did Denny have to die?
Why?
>> His brother, his beloved older brother,
had just died. And he was expressing how
he felt like his father wishes that he
was the one who died.
>> He hates me. He doesn't hate you.
He hates me.
>> No, he just doesn't know you.
>> He hates me. My dad hates me.
and his friend is sitting there trying
to console him in the best way he can,
you know, as a kid. And Reiner would say
that that is how he felt as a little
boy.
>> You're going to be a great writer
someday, Gordy.
You might even write about us guys if
you ever get hard up for material.
[laughter]
>> He felt like the character Gordy talking
to his friend,
>> right? And he felt like his father
didn't know him.
And of course, Reiner's personal life
ends up figuring into the plot of When
Harry Met Sally,
>> right? Reiner had the idea for When
Harry Met Sally after he divorced his
first wife and he was back in the dating
pool. And actually in the making of that
movie, he was introduced to his wife
Michelle. And the way he tells it, he
actually changed the ending of the movie
after meeting Michelle. He changed it so
that the two protagonists end up
together,
>> right? And it's actually kind of
unfathomable that that movie would end
any other way than it did with Harry and
Sally in that famous scene telling each
other that they love each other and that
they will be together.
>> Absolutely. It's film history. And over
the years, Riner's success goes beyond
even directing. He starts this
production company, Castle Rock, that
ends up creating some of classic movies.
and Seinfeld.
>> Exactly. It actually produced one of the
most successful comedy series in
history, Seinfeld.
>> Pretty full circle for a guy who stars
in one of the great sitcoms of his era.
>> Right. And he also has this vibrant
political life. He gets really involved
in the fight for gay marriage. He
actually spearheads a ballot measure
revolving around early education in
California. He becomes this really
multiaceted figure that is known for
more than just his film making.
>> Right. And he becomes a thorn in the
side of President Trump.
>> Absolutely. I mean Reiner was against
Trump from the beginning became a vocal
critic over the years and in one of his
final interviews in recent months warned
that Trump was leading the country into
autocracy. And this was all thrown into
sharp relief after his death when Trump
suggested that his death had to do with
Reiner's own opposition to him.
>> Right. Which is a pretty wildly
unsubstantiated, I dare say reckless
claim. And I think that Julia brings us
back to Reiner's relationship with his
son, which we started with. And I know
that the two father and son end up
working on a film together,
>> right? As everyone sifts through what
there is on the internet about the
relationship between Nick and his
parents, what keeps coming to the four
are these interviews that he did with
his father when they were making this
movie together.
>> Right. And just remind us about this
movie. It's called Being Charlie and
it's actually loosely based on their own
relationship focused on a son who is
battling a drug addiction and a father
who's an actor turned politician.
>> And the idea from this movie came from
Nick Reiner when he was in rehab. You
know, throughout his teenage years, he
said he was in treatment roughly 18
different times. Wow. And in one of
those rehab facilities, he meets a
friend who he starts working on a script
with, and they're pulling from their
experiences with drug addiction. Now,
eventually, Rob Reiner embraces the idea
of making the script into a fulllength
film, and that becomes Being Charlie,
which is directed by Rob Reiner. Mhm.
>> There was clearly a deep conflict
between Nick and his parents over how to
approach his own addiction recovery. And
those themes really shine through in the
movie.
>> There's this line where the father in
the movie is talking to his son who's
battling drug addiction. And the father
says, "All I could tell myself was, I'd
rather have you alive and hating me than
dead on the streets."
>> Wow. And so during this round of
interviews, Rob and Nick are talking
about how this movie affected their
relationship.
>> And how did it affect it?
>> We didn't do it to be cathartic, but it
turned out that that's what what
happened. I mean,
>> Rob said it made him understand his son
a lot more and that he hoped it made him
a better father.
>> And that brought us closer together.
>> And Nick said,
>> we didn't bond a lot as a kid. Like he
really liked baseball. I like
basketball. and he could watch that with
my brother. But baseball,
>> even though he and his father didn't
bond a lot as a kid, it better helped
him understand his dad.
>> It made me feel closer to him.
>> And in those interviews, it's clear
that, you know, Nick and his parents had
worked very hard to keep him sober. But
Nick also talked later about relapsing
after the movie came out. It was
>> after this healing exercise of making a
movie with his dad,
>> right? There was a podcast where he
talks about having a heart attack on a
plane from cocaine use and ending up in
the hospital. And there's another time
he talks about being on cocaine and
completely wrecking his parents' guest
house which he lived in where he punches
the television, punches a lamp, you
know, and that the whole place ends up
in shambles. So, in these interviews,
it's clear that the whole family was
striving for sobriety for Nick and some
lasting stability in terms of the family
relationship.
>> Right.
>> But it never came.
>> Well, Julia, thank you very much. We
appreciate it.
>> Thanks for having [music] me.
After the break, Wesley [music] Morris
on why Rob Reiner's movies are so
beloved.
We'll be right back.
>> Wesley, thank you for making time for
us.
>> Of course. I mean, I'm sad that it has
to be under these circumstances.
>> It's a really sad circumstance. as our
colleague Julia Jacobs just walked us
through. It's a really it's a really
tragic end to a remarkable
>> career. And the reason we've asked you
to come in the studio is because we
wanted a critics's assessment of the
career and the work of Rob Reiner. You
are the Times chief critic. You're also,
and I know this from firsthand
experience, a genuine film buff. So in
that context, what is the significance
in your mind of Reiner and the films
that he directed? What kind of a
filmmaker was he in your mind? He was
the sort of director who was really
interested in pleasing people, right? He
wanted to make movies that made people
happy.
even when they were like dark movies. He
was looking for a way to
find the pleasure centers that we as
movie goers needed met when we went to a
movie theater or you know because a lot
of the times with Reiner, you would be
watching these movies at home over and
over and over again over and over again
and because they somehow made their way
onto your TV screen at home over and
over and over.
>> Oh yeah. Whether you went to a video
store and pulled one of those movies off
the shelf or it was just on cable all
the time.
>> Mhm.
>> The thing about them that is so
wonderful is also the thing that made
Rob Reiner kind of um he wasn't a
critics's director, right?
>> In a lot of ways, you go back and read
the reviews of his movies and it would
always be the charge would be the movies
didn't go far enough. They didn't go
deep enough. They weren't getting into
like the nitty-gritty of human
relationships in the way that they
probably could have, right? In fact, I
went through this exercise within the
last 24 hours and it should be humbling
to the film critics of the world. You go
back and look at the reviews of
something like Stand By Me.
>> Sure.
>> I just wish
that I could go someplace when nobody
knows me.
>> [laughter]
>> in the times. Too much saccharine, but
that that's not the experience of a
young Michael Barbaro watching Stand by
Me and finding it to be a complete
revelation of what brotherhood,
fraternity,
>> and youthful adventure
>> might look like. I mean, I think the
thing about Rybriner that's that's
important to make the distinction
between is a question of what the
greatest movies are and what your
favorite movies are. He makes your
favorites.
>> That man has made your favorite movie.
He has made one of your favorite movies
and everybody's got one. He's made two
of my favorite movies. And like, you
know, uh, when Harry Met Sally, I mean,
come on. There's a couple things with
Rob Reiner that makes this outpouring of
grief over his death important. His peak
as a director was at a time when the
movies were interested in just simple
things brought to life by a good script
and a couple of stars. These are not
values the movies have anymore. These
are bygone aspects of American movie
making. And he embodied he was one of
the principal embodiment his movies were
of that era. For me, when Harry Met
Sally was great because it had these two
people that I kind of knew, Meg Ryan and
Billy Crystal.
>> Rob Reiner made them movie stars. This
movie made them movie stars.
>> It's kind of hard to imagine that they
weren't movie stars before that, but
somehow.
>> Yeah, you had seen them in things
before. And you know, Billy Crystal was
a well-known comic and Meg Ryan was
somebody who'd been in other movies as
like a supporting character. And you
also had in Harry Metal this great
script by Norah Efron. Norah Efron,
William Goldman, Aaron Sorcin, they
wrote the great Rob Reiner movies and he
knew what to do with a good screenplay
and good actors. And part of the
pleasure of watching them all congeal
just come together and you know
transmogriphy into this like amazing
experience of just feeling right. I mean
you watch the princess bride and it's
all exuberance. You watch when Harry met
Sally and it's just whatever you believe
about people getting together and like
spending time with each other and
communicating. It's amazing. You look
like a normal person, but actually, you
are the angel of death.
>> Are you going to marry him?
>> We have only known each other for a
month, and besides, neither one of us is
looking to get married right now.
>> I'm getting married.
>> You are?
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah.
>> Just some great talking issue.
>> Well, you're getting on your own to what
I
>> deeply would love for you to do,
>> okay? which is to take us into one scene
of a [laughter] Reiner directed film.
And at this point, I have to believe
because of what you've already said that
that scene is going to be coming from
when Harry Met Sally.
>> Sure. And there's a lot of scenes in
that movie. I think when Harry Met
Sally, to me, it's the peak of all his
priorities as a filmmaker. the human
part, the love part, and obviously if
you're gonna boil this movie down to one
scene, it's the diner scene, right? It's
the deli scene.
>> Me, Ryan, Sally, and Billy Crystal,
who's Harry. These people have been
friends now for a few years, and they
are very familiar with the cadences of
each other's dating and sex lives.
They go to have lunch one day and they
proceed to talk about Harry's latest
disappointment romantically.
>> It's not working out.
>> It's not working out and she's gone and
he has moved on.
>> So, what do you do with these women? You
just get up out of bed and leave.
>> Sure.
>> Well, explain to me how you do it. What
do you say?
>> Just have an early meeting, early
haircut, or like squash game.
>> You don't play squash?
>> They don't know that. They just met me.
>> That's disgusting.
>> I know. I feel terrible. And she's like,
"Well, you probably wouldn't know that a
woman's never been satisfied by you."
[laughter]
>> Hey, I don't feel great about this, but
I don't hear anyone complaining.
>> Of course not. You're out the door too
fast.
>> I think they have an okay time.
>> How do you know?
>> I mean, how do I know I know?
>> And he's like, I think I would know
because I was there.
>> I created the satisfaction.
>> Because they
>> Yes. Because they
>> How do you know that they're really?
>> What are you saying? That they fake
orgasm?
>> She's like Me Ryan. Sally says, "Well,
>> why? Most women at one time or another
have faked it?"
>> I'm telling you that most women at some
point in their lives have faked it.
>> Well, they have never faked it with me.
>> How do you know?
>> Because I know.
>> And he's like, "No, they haven't. That's
insane,
>> right? That's right. I forgot you're a
man.
>> What is that supposed to mean?
>> Nothing. It's just that all men are sure
it never happened to them and most women
at one time or another have done it. So,
you do the math.
>> You don't think that I can tell the
difference?
>> No.
>> Get out of here.
>> So, cut to me Ryan. Her eyes go, "Oh,
okay." There's a like a twinkle, like a
little mischievous twinkle.
>> She's telling us, she's telegraphing to
us what she's about to do. And she kind
of half smiles and she proceeds to start
her orgasm. [laughter]
>> Oh,
are you okay?
>> And she does not break. [laughter] And
this is a really difficult thing to do
both directing and editing wise because
you have to there's a rhythm that has to
be maintained here.
>> Oh god.
Ooh. Oh god.
>> But you also have to establish that she
is staying in this orgasm and he is
going to suffer through the discomfort
of watching her perform it.
>> Oh yeah. Right there.
And that all of this, we should just
remind the listener, revolves around the
consumption of a very averagel looking
sandwich. That's we got to talk about
the sandwich [laughter] cuz it's just a
pile of meat. But there's a cut to Harry
and his increasing awareness that what
is happening is happening and he is
about to lose this this argument. But
Billy Crystal is performing increasing
mortification at the fact not it's
interesting because it's simultaneously
him losing this argument and him being
embarrassed by this spectacle that she's
creating
>> and there's so many looks on his face of
just like oh my god she's oh my god oh
my god and he's like oh my god
[laughter] and so there's this tension
there's this like physics between his
mort mortification and her ecstasy.
And an important thing happens at about
the 30th second in this scene.
>> Wow. You really
>> of the orgasm part of the scene. The
scene goes like 3 minutes long. It's
this. The cameras on Meg Ryan mid fake
orgasm and a man turns around behind her
and he is wearing a Yankees cap and he
is completely dead pan but looking in
her direction and it's just the two of
them in this shot and you realize, oh my
god, you as a viewer realizes they're
not going to do the thing that a
television show would do. This is the
Rob Reiner going to the movies part.
This is Norah Efron knowing how the
world works. We're not going to pretend
that this is a closed environment and
these people are just here to make you
think you're in a diner.
>> Mhm.
>> People are going to hear [laughter] this
orgasm.
>> Lots of people.
>> Cuz it could have ended just like that.
It could have ended the minute that guy
in the Yankees cap turns around. Even
before that, Billy Crystal was selling
the comedy in this bit as much as Meg
Ryan is. You could have just ended it
right there. That scene could have ended
and she would just like arrest my case.
>> But instead, this scene goes on for like
another 30 seconds.
>> Yeah, it's it's deeply uncomfortable.
>> No, Michael. No, it's not uncomfortable
at all. It's hilarious.
>> Hilariously uncomfortable.
>> And the thing that makes it hilarious is
us, the people watching this woman fake
this orgasm. They don't know she's
faking it. They don't know what's going
on. This This sandwich must be real
good. [laughter] This pile of meat must
be doing something to this woman.
Every subsequent shot during this
sequence, we've established how Meg Ryan
is going to perform her fake orgasm. We
understand that Billy Crystal is
mortified.
But now we spend the rest of this
sequence, most of the rest of it,
watching everybody else in the deli
react.
[gasps]
>> Oh yes.
>> Like not even react. They're just
watching her do this. And it's it's an
amazing site because some people are
concerned, some people are like, you
know, it's New York, so this is also one
of the great New York movies, [laughter]
right? So it's New York and people are
like, "Oh, it's orgasm day, I guess, on
the deli." [laughter]
Okay, great. Fantastic.
And she reaches her climax.
>> YES. YES. OH.
OH, GOD.
>> She picks up her fork. She stabs her
salad or whatever it is that's on that
plate. She takes a bite and we go from
shot, reverse shot, cutaway, cutaway,
cutaway to a like I would say a a master
shot of the two of them facing each
other in the booth. And you can see in
the background two women also having a
meal looking at me Ryan
>> and the famous line cuz the scene could
have ended.
>> Right. Right.
>> When she picks up the fork, we're done.
We're done. This scene is already
killed. But he goes for it. We're done.
And this woman says to the waiter,
you know the line.
>> I'll have what she's having. [laughter]
>> I'll have what she's having. Yeah. It's
one of the most memorable lines in all
of cinema. [laughter]
>> It never gets old. You could watch that
once a week and still pee your pants
because
>> that's how that's how joyful it is.
>> It's just how joyful it is. Also, it's
so New York. I just
>> But by the way, that's his that's his
mom who says it.
>> Oh, yeah. Estelle Reiner is the person
who delivers the line.
>> Perfection.
>> Perfection. But also, the thing that
kills is not just the line. It's the
look of like, I guess I'll have to have
what she's [laughter] having. like her
face is like it's not she does not look
delighted.
>> She looks kind of disgusted
>> and repulsed, but it's like I just need
to see what this is all about. It's as
funny as it is because Rob Reiner keeps
going, right?
>> And he understands there's still another
joke in there somewhere. I want to I
want to get all the jokes out. So, I
want to pause
>> Yeah. for just a moment
>> and talk about how you how we should
juxtapose
all of the hilarity and joy that you
just described
>> that defines these films. How we're
supposed to hold that in one hand and
the brutality and the awfulness of how
his life ends
in the other. [sighs and gasps]
The terrible thing about this death, a
terrible thing about it in terms of the
millions of people who never met, didn't
know Rob Reiner, but whose lives were
touched by his work is that the work was
about the opposite of how he died.
And yet, you know, the very moving
aspect of this grizzly tragedy is, I
mean, from all reports, you know, the
Riners were determined to like help
their son, right? The ethos of the
family life is the ethos of the film
making.
>> You know, sometimes to the movies's
detriment because the movies didn't want
to go to really dark places. The movies
weren't about the real darknesses,
right? The real difficulties. They were
about the the attempt to believe in our
better natures, our better selves.
>> And that is what is so shocking about
his death. But you know, I was, you
know, as one, as at least I do, when
great or important people die in popular
culture,
>> you were often tasked with eulogizing
them in print.
>> Yeah. And so you go back and you look
and see how things went for them in in
real time or how they've been
memorialized before their death, how
their work is considered. And I found,
you know, one of the great tomes, one of
the great movie projects ever.
>> Yeah, you're holding a very, very thick
book
>> is David Thompson's biographical
dictionary of film.
>> It's right here. New I got a new
biographical dictionary of film. the
Marryiam Webbsters of movies written by
one man, David Thompson. And his Rob
Reiner entry is
kind of amazing because he's a little
more dismissive of the wonderful movies.
Um, he gets it, but he doesn't really
they're not for him apparently. But
here's what he says in his dismount and
it's deep. As a director, Rob Reiner, he
seemed more struck or paxed by the
notion that niceness could save the
world. It is a petty thought, but one
that stifles so many human and social
realities. And so his work turns to pie
in the sky with good and bad all too
clearly labeled. He's carried along by a
fundamental decency and a sense of
scenes that play. But his films are
predictable from their first moments and
they begin to establish a weird dumb
orthodoxy. That if we're good to our
kids, everything will be okay.
>> This is not true. Life is more
interesting.
>> Wow.
>> I mean,
>> that is Rob Reiner was very alive when
that was written. And I think
>> that is terribly preient. I think the
thing that made him lovable, Rob Reiner,
as a human being, the reason he was so
beloved by so many different people
[sighs]
was that he
really believed in the fundamental
goodness of people
no matter what. You know, it's an
impossible situation for a parent to
turn your back on a child,
>> right?
>> And in the end, he did not. And he
didn't because you know those movies
were this man [laughter]
for better and for worse but ultimately
for better because they were about our
better selves.
>> This was a man who believed in life. He
believed in people and the movies stand
as a testament to that belief as far as
I'm concerned. And when [snorts] it
clicked and for like I'd say 10 years
this man was humming. [laughter]
It really really really made people
happy the work that he made and it's
just that you know there's the family
tragedy part and then there is the the
happy guy part. He just seemed like such
a joyful like a he was a big bear of a
man and
you just he seemed like either he was
going to hug you or you could hug him
>> completely.
>> And he would be okay with that.
[laughter]
[music]
His movies were like that too for the
most part. [music] They were they're
always there to hug you. And if you want
to hug him back, feel free [music]
because they're on HBO
right now [laughter]
>> and Netflix and Amazon. Um [music]
Wesley, thank you very very much.
Appreciate it.
>> Michael, you're welcome. And I'm sorry
that [music] I'm sorry that I have to be
here to do it.
[music]
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need another day.
On Tuesday, President Trump expanded the
US travel ban to cover [music]
five more countries and added partial
bans on 15 additional countries. The
bans which began in June started with
countries including Afghanistan, Myanmar
and Haiti. The newly banned countries
include Mali, Nishair, South [music]
Sudan, and Syria. Palestinians are also
now banned. Those affected by [music]
the bans cannot immigrate to or enter
the United States. Trump has described
[music] the banned countries as quote
third world and declared that their
citizens pose a threat to Americans.
And [music]
the Australian government said that the
gunmen who carried out the mass shooting
at a Jewish celebration over the weekend
were motivated by ISIS. [music]
Police said that they found two homemade
Islamic State flags in the car that the
suspects, a father and son, [music] had
driven to the site of the massacre.
Today's episode was produced by [music]
Michael Simon Johnson, Moo Sadi, and
Luke Vanderplug. It was edited by
Brendan Clinkenberg [music] and Michael
Benois. contains music by Diane Wong and
Dan Powell and was engineered by Alyssa
Moxley.
[music]
That's it for the daily. [music] I'm
Michael Babar.
See you tomorrow.